Well, good afternoon.
Welcome to session 124,
Twitter Integration.
My name's Glen,
and I'm an iOS software engineer,
and I'm going to be joined
on the stage in a couple of
minutes by my colleague Scott.
Scott and I both worked on the
Twitter integration in iOS 5,
and we're just really excited to
share with you the APIs and the
things that we've been working on.
Scott's got some awesome
demos for you to see,
so you can look forward to that.
So this is one of my favorite quotes
from the TV show The Simpsons.
And it's from the Blackboard gag at the
beginning of the show where Bart writes
out his punishment for the day.
And it just reminds
me so much of Twitter.
You know,
if you look up the term "Twitter
Revolution" on Wikipedia,
you'll get no less than four
disambiguations for that term.
And these aren't just like
silly metaphors or hyperbole.
I mean,
these actually are referring to real
national revolutions that have happened.
And to me, that just speaks a lot to the
influence of Twitter in our society
as a communications tool today.
And this starts to really flesh out
when you look at some of the numbers.
I mean, Twitter has 200 million users.
And they process -- Scott mentioned
this in the keynote on Monday --
one billion tweets per week.
And that is just an incredible amount of,
like, meaningless banter going on.
And that's what Twitter is
doing across the Web.
But, you know,
it's not all just meaningless banter,
right?
I mean, during the Japan earthquake,
they were processing
5,500 tweets per second.
And these are people
communicating with each other,
you know, sharing about what's
going on in our world,
and, you know, who knows,
maybe even communicating
with their families,
letting them know they're okay.
But I think for us as iOS developers,
this is a really
interesting number to me.
There's over 3,000 apps in
the App Store or on iOS that
have have Twitter integration.
[Transcript missing]
Alright,
so this is what we call the Tweet Sheet,
and this is the part of this
talk where we talk about
pain-free Twitter integration.
And as I mentioned, we like to refer to
this as the Tweet Sheet.
Hopefully you've had a chance
to play with this a little bit.
We love it.
Our HI design team just did
a phenomenal job with this.
It looks beautiful.
It has this whole index card
motif and a character countdown.
It's got,
you can add your location to it.
You can even add attachments.
And it's just really great and
really simple to integrate.
So let's talk about how you do that.
What we've done is,
as well as integrate this
into iOS applications like
Safari and Maps and Address Book,
we've made this and exposed this
as an API that's available to you.
And it comes in the form of the
TWTweet Compose View Controller.
So how do you invoke this thing?
Well, there's four steps that
you basically have to take.
And the first is that you need to
check for service availability.
So if, yeah, that's not a joke.
So not Twitter service availability.
I'm talking about whether the
user actually has an account
set up on their device.
If they don't have an account
set up on their device,
you may decide that you don't want
to show the UI element that shows
your tweet button or whatever it
is that invokes your Tweet Sheet.
So once you've done that,
it's just a matter of creating the
View Controller that is the actual Tweet
Sheet and getting an instance of that.
And then supplying a
completion handler to do that.
Tell the tweet sheet what to do
once the users hit cancel or send.
Now that you've got that all set up,
it's just a matter of
presenting it modally over
your current view controller.
So let's look at how we do this in code.
And so I've got just a
sample view controller,
like my view controller.
And I'm just deciding to
override the load view method.
And to check whether the user
actually has a Twitter account set up,
it's just a class method on the
TWTweet Compose view controller
called can't send tweet.
And that'll just return a Boolean
value that tells you if the
user can actually do a tweet.
And so in this case,
we're setting an instance variable
that will indicate to us later in,
you know, whenever our UI loads,
whether we want to show our tweet button.
So let's just imagine for a moment
that the action on that tweet button is
to call this tweet button tap method.
And let's take a look at what actually
happens when you drill into this method.
So now that we've checked
for our service availability,
the next thing we need to do
is just create our tweet sheet.
And to do that, it's really simple.
We just do a TWTweet
Compose view controller,
allocant it,
simple Objective-C stuff that
you're all familiar with,
hopefully.
And then supply our completion handler.
Now in this case, we're deciding to do
something really simple.
We're just going to dismiss
the tweet sheet when it's done.
You may, you know,
want to react to the tweet sheet being
canceled or sent or the send button
being tapped in a different way.
In this case,
we're just going to dismiss it.
And just to note that this is
actually the default behavior if
you decide not to provide a tweet.
So we're going to call it
the TWTweetCompletionHandler.
And once we got that, now we just call
presentModalViewController over
our current view controller.
And that will pop up the tweet sheet.
So that's really as simple
as it is to set up the tweet
sheet in your application.
It's just a couple lines of code.
But that's not all it can actually do.
It has a lot more power than that.
And it comes in the form of attachments.
So you can actually prime the
tweet sheet with some values
before you present it to the user.
And there's three ways
that you can do that.
The first is you can set the initial
text on the tweet sheet itself.
And that's just done by calling
setInitialText and providing your string.
And you'll notice that
there's a return value here.
And all this does is let you know
if it was a successful operation.
Okay.
So why might that not be the case?
Well,
if you provided a string that's too long,
hopefully we're all aware of
the Twitter 140 character limit.
I don't think that's going
to change anytime soon.
But if you've gone too long,
then that's going to be a
little bit of a problem.
So if you've gone too long,
then that's one situation where
you might get a negative result.
The other is if you've already
presented the tweet sheet modally,
and then you try and call this,
we actually actively disallow you from
setting any of these things after that.
Because we don't want the user
to be interacting with the
device and then the tweet sheet
to be changing under their feet.
So that's another reason
why that might happen.
And you'll notice that we don't
return any kind of error here
because it's not really a condition
that you can recover from.
Okay.
So you can set the initial text.
The other thing that you can do is
add an image to the tweet sheet,
which is great.
And this follows the same general
pattern that we talked about
before with the set initial text.
You just provide your UI image,
and then you get a returned result.
Now, when you decide to do this,
we actually take care of resizing
the image for you and uploading it to
Twitter's image hosting service and doing
the URL shortening for you automatically.
And so, you know,
that URL takes some of your characters.
And again, you may get a negative result
if you decide to add too many or
you've already used up too many
characters in the tweet sheet.
The last thing you can
do is set up a URL.
And again,
very similar to what we said before,
we handle the URL shortening for you,
and a Boolean result is returned.
Okay.
So, we've -- I've talked about
this a little bit as I've been
going over the tweet sheet,
but just to reiterate, you know,
there are sizing constraints.
There's the 140-character maximum.
Images and URLs use some of your
characters when you decide to add them.
And just an interesting side note is that
the URL shortening uses 19 characters.
Now, you know,
that's a cool little tidbit
of information to know,
but it's really not
something you should rely on,
right?
Because as the namespace fills
up and the URLs get longer,
you know, the 19-character length of
the URL shortening is not
something you want to rely on.
So, instead,
make sure that you're paying attention to
the Boolean return values because that's
what you ought to trust is the truth.
Okay, so I'm going to ask Scott to come
up and give you a demo of how to use
the tweet sheet in your application.
So please welcome Scott.
So this is a real simple demo,
just to kind of show you how
to pop up a tweet sheet and see
how we add attachments to it.
So what I've done here is just
written a simple little app.
It's got a number of buttons.
And each one of these buttons represents
a kind of attachment type that you
might want to add to the tweet sheet.
So this guy up here, we've got some text.
That's the initial text
you might want to set.
These guys down here are
just a couple images,
and then just a sort of a random link.
And so when I click these buttons,
what's going to happen is it's
going to go and make those calls
that Glen was just showing you.
It's going to set the initial text,
or it's going to add an image or a URL.
And if the result of that is true,
then we're going to see a
cute little green checkbox.
And if it's not so good,
then you're going to see this
sort of angry red indicator.
So let's go ahead and try a couple here.
So I'm going to click this guy.
So that text, that fit,
was less than 140 characters.
So we're still good to go.
I click another one here.
That, we added the image,
and it knew that the
Tico length today is 19,
so we're still all good to go.
Can add a couple more.
Then when I try to add this one,
that one didn't work.
So let's try it again with
just a couple simple ones.
Just these three things here.
Hit the Tweet button.
Pop it up, and you can see the Tweet
sheet is as we know and love.
Let's show you just some of the
code here that it took to do that.
As I flail around with the mouse.
There we go.
And you can also get--
You can watch me learn
how to scroll and line.
So this here is-- we're just
making a new tweet sheet,
right?
So just Alec and NIT1.
Just like Glen did,
we're building a very simple
completion handler block.
And all we're going to do here is--
it's not particularly interesting.
Whether or not the user
hit cancel or done,
we'll go ahead and
just dismiss our sheet.
And then here's where we set it.
And then down below,
as I was adding-- as I was
clicking those buttons,
again, we're just using these
simple methods-- add image,
add URL, et cetera.
And we're just returning out the back,
like, OK, did this work or not?
And then there's some
other UI kit machinery to
actually show the indicators.
So lastly, when I click that button,
the Tweet button, it's so simple.
All you have to do is just
take your Tweet sheet that we
made and present it modally,
animated, and it pops up all nice,
and you're good to go.
So that's how easy it is to
add a Tweet sheet to your app.
So I hope to see a lot of them.
Thanks.
Great.
Thank you.
Scott?
So just a couple of tips and tricks when
you're interacting with the tweet sheet.
Remember that the tweet sheet is really
only designed for modal presentations.
So you kind of want to stay away
from trying to put this thing in
a UI navigation controller stack
or in a UI popover on the iPad.
It's really designed to be presented
modally over your application.
So use the present modal view
controller method on UI view
controller to present it.
Again, just to reiterate,
set the properties prior to presentation.
We don't want you messing around
with the tweet sheet under the
user's feet while they're using it.
So do that before you present it.
And then check the can send tweet
method if applicable for you.
So one little detail to note here
is that if the user doesn't actually
have an account set up in settings and
you decide to invoke the tweet sheet,
we'll actually context switch
the user back to the user.
So if you're using a tweet sheet,
you're going to have to go
back to settings to allow
them to set up an account.
And, you know, this may or may not be a
behavior that you want.
So you should be aware of it and make
sure that you check the can send tweet
class method on the view controller.
And the other thing is just to be
aware that we are doing image resizing.
We are uploading things.
So, you know, if you provide a huge image
to the add image method,
then it's going to take, you know,
a few seconds to resize if necessary.
Okay.
So that is the tweet sheet.
That is pain-free Twitter integration.
It took us about 10
minutes to go through that.
It's really, really simple.
And I encourage you,
if you have simple Twitter integration
needs in your application,
use this.
You get a great UI for free and
it's really easy to invoke it.
Okay, so we talked about that,
and now we're going to move on to talk
about something else that's pretty cool,
which is the new accounts
framework in iOS 5.
And this is a really cool feature,
but it's kind of a sleeper feature,
right?
It's not really talked about a lot,
but what it allows you to
do is access built-in system
accounts that are on the device.
Now, for iOS 5,
we're only supporting Twitter accounts,
but there's still a lot of power in that.
And we also allow you to add accounts
in certain situations and make system
accounts as well from your application.
And we'll go into why you
might want to do that and how
to do that in a little bit.
And if you do decide to do that,
we also take care of
the validation for you.
We make sure that the credentials
that you provide us are good to go
with Twitter before we add the account
and make it become a system account.
All right,
so just a word on the architecture of
the accounts framework and how it's laid.
So you've got your application,
it's in its sandbox,
and we've got the accounts database
and the protected file system.
So how do these things
communicate with each other?
Well,
there's an intermediary process called
accounts D that basically acts as
the arbiter between your application
and the accounts database itself.
And this architecture gives
us a couple nice features.
One is obviously security, right?
We can store the credentials for the user
securely in the protected file system.
And, you know,
a bunch of applications can't get at it
without going through our frameworks.
And it also gives us a layer of
abstraction for your application
and other applications
to access the accounts,
which, you know,
limits the way that they can access
the database and make sure they're not,
you know, messing it up for you, right?
So that's just a quick
overview on how it's laid out.
And this is basically what
the class diagram looks like,
and it's very simple.
We've got four that are there.
But I want to finish up with
a little bit of a summary.
So I'm going to focus on
these three to begin with.
And essentially what you
have is an account store.
And in your account store,
you've got a bunch of accounts,
and each account has an account type.
And that's really all there is to it.
But what I'm going to do is go
through each of these classes and
just describe them to you so you can,
you know, maybe understand their
function a little better.
And we'll start out
with the account store.
So the account store is your
connection to the accounts database.
And when you allocate and
initialize one of these,
automatically,
your connection to the accounts
database is established.
Now, these are things that you generally
want to keep as long-lived instances,
right?
You typically don't want
to allocate one of these,
interact with the account,
and then throw away the account store,
especially if you have the kind of
application that's going to be using
the account throughout its lifecycle.
So it's something you probably want
to put maybe in your application
delegate or your review controller.
You want to keep it around.
Now, it's also important to remember that
the account instances themselves are,
are bound to the account
store from which they came.
So if you access an account and
pull it out of an account store
and then deallocate that account
store and try to use that account
with another account store,
okay, bad things are going to happen.
There's an implicit connection
between those two objects that,
that needs to be respected.
The other thing I want to point out is
the AC accounts change notification,
which is defined in this header.
And this is something that any
application that is implementing
code that uses the accounts
framework needs to respect.
It's a notification that fires
when the accounts database changes.
So if the user goes into settings,
adds an account or removes an account,
or maybe revokes permission
for a particular application,
this notification is going to
fire and you need to respond to
it and observe that notification.
And any instances of accounts
that you have lying around,
you need to refresh and obtain
new ones from the account store
because otherwise you're going to be
dealing with outdated information.
So that's the account store.
And the next one that I want to
look at is the AC account object,
which is really what
you're interested in,
right?
This is the object that
represents the account itself,
and it's got five basic properties on it.
It's very simple.
It has a unique identifier.
It has an associated account type,
username, credential, and description.
And I just want to point
out the description.
So when we create a Twitter account,
we automatically create the
description by appending the
at symbol to the username.
But the user can actually
go into settings and adjust
this thing so that it can,
you know, read however they want it to.
So typically,
if you're presenting UI that
references a particular account,
the description is what you want to use,
because that's what the
user has told the system,
"Hey, this is what I want this
account to be known by."
Okay, the next one is the
AC account type object.
And so every account has an account type.
And it's got three simple
properties as well.
Again, it's got an identifier.
And these just aren't just, you know,
the account type is not
just a string or something.
This is a real object that
lives in the account store.
And it has a description.
And then it's got this
interesting property called
the access granted property.
And that tells you whether the
user has granted access to accounts
of this type to your application.
So you can check this at any time
to figure out if you have permission
to use accounts of this type.
Okay, so let's talk about
that a little bit more.
How do you actually request permission
to use a particular account?
It's very simple, and we're going to step
through it by code.
As I mentioned,
accounts are protected by account type.
So once you have access to, you know,
one Twitter account, you essentially have
access to all of them,
and we message it to
the user in that way.
So to get permission for an account,
you just create an account store.
Again, very simple, AC account store,
Alicanit.
Your connection is now
established to the database.
And then you obtain the account
type that you're interested
in gaining permission for.
In this case,
it's always going to be Twitter, right?
So to do that,
it's just a call to account type
with account type identifier.
And you'll notice this identifier.
So, you know,
all supported account types,
we define an identifier for them,
and it's in the header.
So in this case, it's the AC account type
identifier for Twitter.
We pass that in, and now we have our
Twitter account type object.
And we can request permission to
use that from the user by just
calling on the account store,
request access to accounts with type.
And that comes with
the completion handler.
So we've used completion
handlers a couple of times now.
And I just want to point out,
this is probably a good time to
point out that we make heavy use of
blocks and Grand Central Dispatch
in these frameworks.
So if you're not familiar with those,
I'd encourage you,
get familiar with blocks
in Grand Central Dispatch.
It's going to be useful if you're
interacting with these APIs.
So you'll notice in
our completion handler,
we return a Boolean that indicates
whether you got permission or not,
and an error in case
anything else went wrong.
And you can check the
granted Boolean value.
And if it's true,
then you know you have permission
to access the accounts.
Okay.
So now that you've got permission,
you've requested it from the user.
And you've got permission
to access the accounts.
So you can see that the
user has granted it to you.
How do you actually go and
get an account instance?
And there's two ways
that you can do this.
And the first is you can request all
the accounts of a particular type.
And
So let's take a quick look
at how you do that in code.
Again, obtain that Twitter account
type by calling account type
with account type identifier.
And then just ask the store for all
the accounts of a particular type,
and you'll get an ordered array in the
same order that the accounts were added
of the accounts that are on the system.
The other way that you can do
this is to request an account
by a particular identifier.
And so I mentioned each account
has a unique identifier,
and you may decide that you
want to save that identifier
aside somewhere in your code,
maybe in a P list or something,
and access that exact account later on,
or maybe in a different
instance of your application.
So to do that, it's just a simple call to
account with identifier,
and that'll give you
your AC account object.
So those are the two ways
that you can access accounts
using the accounts framework.
All right.
So we've talked about
the three basic classes,
but there's one more that I want to cover
and it's the AC account credential class.
And this is a really interesting one
because what it makes possible is
for you to actually add accounts to
the device by providing credentials.
So if you're an application developer and
you've got a full-fledged Twitter client,
it's a pretty good bet that you've
got the OAuth access tokens and the
token secret associated with those
accounts stored in your application.
And wouldn't it be nice if you
could migrate those credentials to
become system accounts themselves?
So that's what we're allowing you to do
because we realize that for those of you
who are implementing Twitter clients,
you know, you've already got your users'
account information and it may
not be guaranteed that they've
gone and set up a Twitter account
as a system account already.
So what we do is we allow you to
actually provide credentials that we
will then store as system accounts.
So that's exactly what
we're describing here.
You can add new system
Twitter accounts from your app,
and you do that by
migrating OAuth credentials,
and we'll show you how to do that.
When you provide us with
the OAuth credentials,
we take care of going
and talking to Twitter,
making sure that your
OAuth credentials are OK,
and then setting up a system
account on the device.
And it all happens really pretty
seamlessly and automatically.
OK, so let's look at in code
how you actually do this.
The first thing you do is
create your account object.
It's got one initializer.
Every account has an account type,
so it's init with account type.
I've showed you a couple times
how to obtain the account
type from the account store.
You just pass that in,
and now you've got a
new account instance.
It's not saved in the database yet,
but because we've got to add
a couple of other things,
or really one more thing.
So the next thing you do is
create your OAuth credential.
And so you take your OAuth access
token and access secret for your
particular account and initialize
a credential object with it,
and then set that
credential on the account.
And once you've done that,
you're ready to go,
and it's just a matter
of calling account store,
save account,
pass in your account instance
with its OAuth credentials,
and we'll go ahead and verify
that the credentials are valid.
And it's pretty cool.
Right in settings.
Your Twitter account
will actually appear.
And this is really powerful, right?
Because it means that your
account that you've been using
is now accessible to the user.
It can be used in the tweet sheet.
It can be used in other
applications as well,
which is really great.
So a couple of tips and tricks in
dealing with the accounts framework.
One is to ask for
access when you need it.
So if you've got a full-fledged
Twitter client and you're using
our frameworks and you want
to use the user's accounts,
which we encourage you to do,
then it makes sense for
you to ask at the outset,
right at application launch time.
Ask the user if they can use their
accounts-- if you can use their accounts,
because if you don't,
it's essentially a non-starter for you,
right?
But if you're using Twitter as an
auxiliary function to your application
or it's just a neat social feature,
then don't bug the user with an alert
right when your application launches.
Instead, ask for permission when they
decide to use that Twitter feature,
right?
Important to note that certain
operations are always gated with alerts.
So, for instance,
requesting access to an account,
obviously, is going to pop up an alert.
And adding an account to the system
using existing OAuth credentials
will also pop up an alert.
We're going to ask the user if it's
okay to add this account to the system.
Again, don't cross the streams.
Don't take an account from one account
store and try and interact with another
account store using that account.
It's just not a good idea.
And pay attention to that notification
that I was telling you about.
And this is an important note
as well that I'm going to
mention a couple more times.
Often as a result of
interacting with these APIs,
you need to update UI,
and you need to make calls to UIKit.
And all of the block-based
APIs that we have are not guaranteed
to return on the main thread.
So if you are updating UI as a
result of any of these calls,
then make sure you're dispatching
that call to the main thread,
or performing a selector
on the main thread.
My favorite way of doing it is this,
is just to use dispatch async,
and this is more GCD magic.
Use dispatch async, get the main queue,
and then throw in a block that calls your
method that'll actually update your UI.
Okay, so that is a quick overview
of the accounts framework.
It allows you to access built-in system
accounts and use them and interact
with the Twitter API using them.
It also allows you to migrate existing
OAuth credentials that you have and
graduate them to become system accounts
that can be used by the tweet sheet
and other applications if necessary.
So, now we're going to move on and
talk about the Twitter request API.
Now, I think at this point it's probably
a good idea to just kind of take a
step back and take a look at what the
Twitter ecosystem looks like on iOS.
And so what we have is, you know,
on iOS we have the best
mobile Twitter clients around.
Thanks to you guys.
I mean, we have awesome Twitter clients
that are available.
And then we've got this
expressive and useful
Twitter API that's available to you,
right?
And that's great,
but it's really not the whole story,
right?
Because kind of, you know,
sandwiched in the middle of this
thing is this other thing called
OAuth that you have to deal with
if you're interacting with Twitter.
And as we were thinking about
implementing Twitter in iOS and
talking to our counterparts at
Twitter and talking to people
who've implemented Twitter clients,
it became apparent really quickly
that the biggest stumbling block to
doing this is using OAuth and using
-- and I'm not just talking about,
you know, the steps of going to a website
and authorizing applications.
I mean, just the mechanics of
signing your requests.
Many of you have to use, you know,
open source or third-party
libraries to do this kind of thing.
And so one of our big goals when
we were creating the Twitter API in
iOS 5 was just to get rid of
this whole layer entirely.
It's okay.
Yeah, you can clap.
Because I think it's pretty cool.
I mean, this really gets a big stumbling
block out of your way completely,
right?
And it allows you to interact with the
Twitter API directly and not really have
to worry about all these details of how
to sign requests and all that stuff.
We just take care of it for you.
You don't have to worry about it.
[Transcript missing]
We take care of the
OAuth signing for you.
As I was mentioning,
we do all the heavy lifting of that.
And all you have to worry about
is your application and how to
interact with the Twitter API.
And you can use any of
the Twitter accounts,
thanks to the new accounts framework,
in conjunction with
the TW request object,
provided the user has
granted you access to do so.
The other thing we added was
support for multi-part data.
So some of the APIs that Twitter uses
or exposes requires you to upload
pictures or things like that.
And the way that's done is by
using multi-part form data.
And so we have just a really
easy way for you to add that to
your TW requests and not have to
worry too much about the details.
So we'll show you how to do that too.
All right.
So this is our TW request object.
And you can see it's got
four basic properties to it,
right?
And if you're familiar with
using the Twitter API and looking
at the Twitter documentation,
these probably look pretty familiar
to you because every piece of
Twitter documentation out there
has essentially an analog to
these four pieces of information
in the TW request object.
And so when you're coding
up your TW requests,
you know, I encourage you, have the,
have the, have the Twitter API.
And so that's kind of the
way that we're doing it.
All right.
So we have the,
the Twitter docs open right next to it.
And it should be,
it should feel almost as natural as
like just filling in the blanks as
you go through the documentation.
So, you know, we have a URL property.
Every Twitter doc has the URL property
which represents the endpoint
that you're interacting with.
We have the request method.
So Twitter APIs support get, post,
and some of them support delete.
We support all of those.
And you just tell us which one you want,
you want us to use.
And then each doc,
each one of them has a request method.
And so you can just tell us
which one you want us to use.
All right.
So Twitter APIs support get, post,
and some of them support delete.
We support all of those.
And you just tell us which one you want,
you want us to use.
And then each,
the documentation for each API spells out
whether the request that you're making
is an authenticated request or not.
And so that just corresponds
to the account property.
So if it's an authenticated request, hey,
just pop in one of the accounts and we'll
use that account to sign the request.
And then each piece of documentation
also spells out some parameters.
So, you know,
if you want to limit the request in
some way by providing some parameters,
we take care of that in the form of a
dictionary that you just provide to us,
and we assemble the request for you.
Okay.
So let's take a quick look at
how you would code this up.
And it's, again, you know, really simple.
Well, before we do that,
I want to point out
that there are two ways,
once you have your TWRequest object,
to perform a request,
and the first way you do this is we
have a convenience method right on the
object called PerformRequestWithHandler.
Now this will take care of actually
doing all the communication with
Twitter and delivering the data back
to you in a single Atomic request.
Okay.
So what do I mean by that?
It's kind of a weird word here,
but it's--all I mean is that we
will go and perform the request
and return the data all at once.
Okay.
It's asynchronous,
but it happens all at once and you get
delivered the result at the end of it.
The other way to do it is by
asking for a signed NSURL request.
Now, you know,
many of you have mature Twitter clients,
you've got applications that
are using the Twitter API.
You've got this whole NSURL connection
stack that handles errors,
it handles streaming data and partial
downloads and things like that.
Well,
how do you plug our stuff into that?
So we thought of that and we figured
the best way to do it was to give
you something that you can just
plug right into that infrastructure.
So you can call and--on the TWRequest
object and ask for a signed URL.
We take care of the signing.
You dump it into your--.
infrastructure, it does the requesting,
and it's all taken care of for you.
So, now I mentioned that, you know,
we wanted to get rid of the OAuth stuff,
and we did that in terms of
the way that you guys view it,
but it's still there, right?
It's still under the covers.
OAuth serves a really important function.
It authenticates your application
and your user to Twitter.
So we still need to deal with it.
So I figured I would show you
exactly what's really going
on under the covers here.
So you've got your Twitter client,
and it implements the Twitter framework,
and you now want to make a request,
and so you make up one of
these TWRequest objects,
and that's represented by
the little Twitter bird.
And now you go and you call
perform request with handler,
or you ask for a signed NSURL request.
What happens next?
Well,
what we do is we ship that request over
the wire to the accounts D process,
which has access to
the user's credentials.
And we take care of
doing the OAuth signing.
So, you know, we set up the base URL,
we order the parameters correctly,
we take care of doing all the SHA-1
stuff and setting up the NSURL request.
And once that's done,
then we ship it back over
the wire to your process,
and then it's up to your
process to actually make the
request to Twitter either by
using the request with handler,
perform request with handler,
or by using the request with handler.
So, you know,
perform request with handler
or dispatching your signed
NSURL request in your network stack,
right?
So one thing I want to point out here is,
you know, I've seen a little bit of
chatter about people wondering,
you know,
how is my app going to be identified?
Is everything going to
show up as from iOS?
So as part of this signing process,
we actually embed enough information
about your process that Twitter can
identify your application correctly
and attribute tweets that come in.
So you can see that the message that's
coming from you on the Twitter website.
So you won't lose that identification,
right?
So once it's been shipped back
over to the Twitter framework,
then your client app sends it over to
Twitter and they process the request
and return the result back to you.
OK, so we talked about the
structure of this stuff.
Let's look at a little bit of
code to see how you do this.
So the first thing we need to do is pick
the endpoint that we're going to use.
And so in my example,
what I'm going to do is write some code
to download the user's home timeline.
Now if you're familiar
with the Twitter API,
you know that each of these
endpoints basically can be suffixed
with the kind of data that you're
looking for in your response,
right?
So in this case, we're suffixing the
URL with the .JSON suffix,
and that means we're basically
expecting JSON data back.
So once we've done that,
then we create our parameters dictionary,
and that's just a
matter of--in this case,
we want to limit the number of
tweets that come back on the home
timeline to 10 instead of like
the default 200 or whatever it is,
right?
So we create a dictionary,
and if you look in the Twitter docs,
that's just using the count parameter.
Set the value to 10, the key to count.
And now we go and create
our TWRequest object.
And so it's got one initializer
that takes three values.
The first is the URL that you created.
The next is the dictionary of
parameters to narrow down your request.
And then the next is the request method.
And in this case,
we're just going to do a simple get.
Okay, so we've done that,
we've created our TW request,
now what's next?
Well, in this case,
we just want to use the convenience
perform request with handler method.
And so we're going to do that.
And it returns in its block handler the
response data and the NSHTTP URL response
and any errors that might come back.
Now,
if you're familiar with NSURL connection,
this might look familiar.
This is the same stuff that comes back
if you send a synchronous request,
right?
But again, it's not synchronous.
It's atomic.
And it'll come back and
give you the response data.
So let's take a look at how we handle
this in our completion handler.
All right.
So I mentioned before that we suffixed
our URL with the .json suffix,
which means we're
expecting JSON information.
And there's this great new class in
iOS 5 called NSJSON Serialization,
which will take in JSON raw
data and give you a foundation
object on the other side.
And so that's what we're using.
And basically,
what we get is an array of tweets back.
Now, you know, for the sake of space,
I'm not really acting on errors here,
but I just want to
reiterate and encourage you,
handle your errors.
Make sure you're checking your--that
NSError and the JSON error there
and responding appropriately.
And we're just going to assume
that we have some kind of method
that's updating our timeline.
So we call that update timeline,
pass in that array of tweets into it.
And again,
completion has to be done in the same
way that we did in the previous version.
So we're going to call
that update timeline,
pass in that array of tweets into it.
And again,
completion has to be done in the same
way that we did in the previous version.
And again,
completion has to be done in the same
way that we did in the previous version.
And again,
completion has to be done in the
same way that we did in the previous
Deficient handlers are not guaranteed
to be returned on the main thread,
so to be sure,
we're going to dispatch async
onto our main queue and call
the code that updates our UI.
And that's really as simple as it is.
All right.
So a quick word about multipart data.
How do you upload multipart data
if you want to update a profile
image or something like that?
So I've got a little example
in code of how to do that.
And in this case,
we're going to use the update
profile image endpoint,
again, with the JSON suffix,
create our TWRequest object,
pass in the URL.
We don't have any parameters this time.
And then call this great method
called add multipart data.
And in this case, it's a JPEG image.
Now, I'm assuming that, you know,
in this code,
you use the image picker or something
and you get a UI image back.
So we're just going to use the UI image
JPEG representation convenience method to
convert that to an NSData in JPEG format.
And then Twitter expects images
that are in the JPEG format
to be in the JPEG format.
So we're going to use the UI image
JPEG representation convenience method to
convert that to an NSData in JPEG format.
And then Twitter expects images
that are in the JPEG format.
that are uploaded to be--that
part of the form is called media,
so that's the name that
we're going to assign to it.
And then, of course, we have to set the
MIME type to be image/JPEG.
And that's as simple as it is to upload
multipart form data in your TWRequest.
Again, call perform request with
handler and deal with the
results that come back from that.
Okay, one more time,
I'm going to bring Scott up to give you
a demo of how to use all these APIs.
We've covered a bunch of them.
And he's going to do that.
I think you're really going to like it.
Let's give him a hand.
Thanks.
So, actually,
if you would allow us just a
moment to be a little bit serious.
There's an issue that's
very close to Glen and I,
and that is the current
plight of monkeys.
I think you can agree that they
all face a lot of problems,
not the least of which is
issues like shrinking habitat.
Right?
That's a real problem.
They often are evicted from their homes,
end up in zoos,
where oftentimes they then
become addicted to cigarettes,
tobacco products.
The larger problem than that is
there's really no good Twitter client
that is dedicated just to monkeys.
So we're going to try and
address that today with a
little app we call MonkeyGram.
So make sure I've done everything right.
So this is our Monkeygram application.
It's very simple.
It's just designed to present some
wheels for a monkey to be able to
roll around with and build a tweet.
When it launches,
the first thing it does is using
the API that Glen has discussed.
It goes and tries to
get a Twitter account,
because Monkeygram without a
Twitter account isn't super interesting.
So we're going to say yes.
Let's allow it.
So by rolling these wheels here,
we're affecting the mention, right?
And rolling these guys here
affects the tweet body itself.
And then down here, over to the right,
is the hashtag.
Bieber isn't big into economics,
so I trust him.
So we're going to say tweet.
And what this is going to do is
use that API that Glen discussed
to actually send the tweet.
So let's take a look at some of
the code that we wrote for that.
So as Glenn mentioned at first,
we get our account store.
We get our Twitter account type.
And then we set about trying to
find an appropriate Twitter account.
Now, I'm only-- this is just a demo.
So I'm only going after the very
first Twitter account that I find.
One thing to keep in mind is
we support multiple accounts,
right?
So it's kind of important when you
write an app to keep that in mind.
Don't just go and use
the first one you find.
Do as I say, not as I do.
As Glenn also mentioned,
based on whether or not you're
going to use any UI or anything,
you really need to keep track of
sort of which queue you're on.
So we don't exactly know
what queue this is coming on,
what we're going to get this account on.
So I've wrapped this code in this sort
of async call with a block so that
it all executes on the main queue.
And I do that because down here,
depending on whether or not
we found an account or not,
we're going to go ahead and enable or
disable that little button at the bottom.
So here's sort of the meat
of sending a text-only tweet.
It looks very similar to the
stuff that Glen showed you,
the differences being that we're
hitting a different endpoint,
so we're hitting Update.
And the keys that we're
using are slightly different.
It's very simple.
It's just status,
and then you put the text in there,
and you're good to go.
So we would assign these parameters.
These parameters are
called query parameters.
They go in as part of the query.
They're different than
the multi-part parameters,
which we'll show you just in a second.
So when the tweet goes out,
it comes back.
And as you'll see,
I'm not really checking in your errors.
It just plays a monkey sound,
which you didn't hear,
which is a damn shame,
because I made that sound myself.
And I'd love to have you here.
So that's what would happen
once the request comes back.
And here, down below,
you'll see I'm just using
the very simple fire,
let it go off,
and figure out what happened,
and then come back and tell
me about it request method.
So that's how we send simple text tweets.
Now,
if we want to do something a little more
[Transcript missing]
So this endpoint is authenticated, right?
We are doing this to your account.
So this is where we make sure
to prime this request with the
account that we got earlier.
I have a little method called image data,
which goes off and makes
a cute little image,
which I'll show you.
And we add that as a part.
And we go ahead and tag
it with the tag media,
and set the type to image JPEG.
And so here you can see sort of where
the status text actually comes into play.
Instead of putting it
as a query parameter,
comes in as just a named
multi-part data thing.
And again,
like we discussed a little bit earlier,
I wanted to show you,
if you wanted to fit this into an
existing NSURL connection workflow,
what would that look like?
And so what we're doing is using
this tweet request that we've made,
we're getting a signed URL request.
And as Glen mentioned,
that goes off and does all the
OAuth hoo-ha and comes back
with this special NSURL request.
And we can take that and put it
into an NSURL connection that we all
know and love and tell it to start.
So I'm not paying attention to
too many of the delegate messages,
but I do want to show a little progress
this time when we send a tweet,
because we're pushing up this image
and it could take a little bit.
And so all I've done is just,
I'm overriding, I'm listening to one
of NSURL's connection,
NSURL connection's delegate messages
connection did send body data.
And I grab the progress and
we'll do something cute with it.
So that's that.
So let's take a look at what we did.
We'll stop that one.
So, let's send another tweet.
Can't let Bieber have all the fun.
There we go.
So we'll send that guy.
And now we'll actually see
a little bit of progress.
Network's good here.
And it would have made a monkey noise,
I promise.
So let's go take a look and
see what we actually sent.
So I'm going to come
over here to Twitter.
And here was the message that we sent.
So you can see there's the tweet,
the text part, and then we made this cute
little image to go along with it.
So it's very straightforward.
It takes a lot of the hard work,
the grunge work,
of doing all this OAuth stuff,
and it lets you guys go do the stuff
that you presumably want to do,
which is make cool,
entertaining applications and
not so much signing OAuth.
So that's how that works.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks, Scott.
Wasn't that awesome.
I don't think we can
put it on the App Store,
but we've been playing
a lot with it at work,
and it's pretty cool.
So just a couple tips and tricks
with using the TW request and
the Twitter API in general.
One of the important
things is to remember,
follow the Twitter rules of the road.
They've got this document.
And follow the Twitter guidelines
as appropriate.
Don't do things like send
tweets on behalf of the user
without giving them any visual
indication that you're doing so.
Those are all the kind of policies
that are outlined in the documents.
And then again, I just want to point out,
make sure you call those
completion handlers,
or any calls that you make
from your completion handlers
that have to do with UI,
dispatch those on the main thread
to make sure things operate
as UI Kit expects them to.
So that is Twitter integration.
It allows really simple-- it gives you
a really simple interface to access
the full range of Twitter's API and
do really powerful Twitter clients and
applications in a really simple way.
So if you want more information,
contact Bill Dudney, he's our application
framework evangelist.
Check out the Twitter documents on
our frameworks at developer.apple.com,
and of course, the Twitter API.
And a couple related sessions.
We talked a lot about
block-based APIs here,
so make sure you brush up on
that and check out the blocks and
Grand Central dispatch and practice talk.
That already happened, but there's always
iTunes or ADC on iTunes.
And again, you know,
we're dealing with networks here,
so the CoreOS networking key
principles talk is probably a good
one to take a look at as well.
Just in summary,
we covered the tweet sheet,
pain-free Twitter integration,
accessing system accounts,
and using the TW request APIs to use the
full range of Twitter application APIs.
So, you know,
my send-off to you is go and make some
really cool apps and use these APIs.
And thanks for coming,
and thanks for listening.